# Sentimental-Analysis-and-Natural-Language-Processing-Exploration-of-Anime-Dataset

The goal of project was to design a model with the capability to interpret raw data and categorize it as either positive or negative based on the content within the data. Broadly speaking, this will require us to conduct Natural Language Processing (NLP), specifically a sentimental analysis, on the data set “AnimeReviews” and then subsequently training our model to understand raw text. Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) which gives machines the ability to read, understand and derive the meaning from human languages. NLP applies algorithms to understand the meaning and structures of sentences. I have made use of Syntactic analysis which is used to assess how the natural language aligns with grammatical rules. Sentiment analysis (also known as opinion mining) is a process that can be used to identify, extract and analyze information that can be open to interpretation. In this specific case, we aimed to predict the sentiment of reviews related to different pieces of anime works. The sentiment of each review is based on the content of the raw text in each review and each review as either “positive” or “negative”. Although the reviews on this data set are not related to a specific business or company, the concept of being able to accurately obtain and interpret large amounts of information that provide either positive or negative feedback can be especially useful to an organization looking to improve its overall performance. Based on model’s performance, I feel that it could be applied in a real business environment, so that a business could gauge how customers/stakeholders, both individually and as a group, feel about a specific product/topic.
